uh good afternoon to everyone out there
I'm buried through executive director of
gray area and it's my great privilege to
welcome you all to the opening keynote
conversation of gray area Festival 2021
worlding protocol this is our seventh
year of gray area festival and although
we're all sad to not be able to hold our
conference in person again this year we
are proud to be able to present an
extraordinary lineup of artists
researchers technologists online with
free access to anyone thanks to the
support of the National Endowment for
the Arts
um of course we can only continue to
produce amazing programming like what
you're going to experience this week
with the support of you our audience and
so if you are able to please upgrade uh
to a paying membership to help sustain
this creative Community we try and
cultivate as well as receive other
benefits year round and you can get in
touch with us to talk about that
um this Festival couldn't happen without
the tireless efforts of uh what I think
is the hardest working Arts team on the
planet
um so my deepest gratitude goes to
Seabrook Matt Joy victoire Tiffany Nikki
Matt Hannah nadav
um all our other volunteers and for
making this happen and to all the
participants in this year's festival for
showing up with extremely important and
Boundary pushing work
um now I'd like to introduce the curator
of this year's Festival Wayne
wallerstein Wade is founder of silicon
ballet and co-director of transfer
Gallery that's been supporting Digital
Arts Arts and Technology for years he's
extremely knowledgeable and supporting
of arts and culture and I can't speak
highly enough of the program he's put
together for us all this year which
hopefully we can now hear some more
about
hi everyone and thanks so much for the
warm welcome Barry
um I'm really excited to be here with
everyone today
um this is the first day of the gray
area Festival worlding protocol program
and as Barry said this show is really a
labor of love from the whole Community
who came together around this idea of
World building
before I begin I want to make a few
acknowledgments first and foremost we at
gray area acknowledge that we are
located on the unseated ancestral
homeland of the ramitesh aloni peoples
who are the original inhabitants of the
San Francisco Peninsula we recognize
that as the original stewards of this
land the Rama tisholoni understood the
interconnectedness of all things and
maintained harmony with nature for
Millennia and we honor the oloney
peoples for their enduring commitment to
Mother Earth
we wish to pair respects by
acknowledging the ancestors elders and
relatives of the ramaitis community and
by affirming their Sovereign rights as
first peoples
so with that said what is worlding
protocol all about worlding is a mode of
interdependent inter-species planetary
perception and protocol are the
comprehensional infrastructures that
organize our mediated experience
as our species take stock from a still
uncontained Global pandemic it's clear
that the entangled web of ecological
economic and social crisis that we Face
demands planetary scale cooperation even
with the promise of new technologies
enabling real life real-time simulation
distributed Financial systems and
geoengineering exclusionary and
extractive power structures persist
rendering purely Technical Solutions
ineffective
anything is possible yet nothing really
seems to change
for the seventh edition of gray area
Festival we present worlding protocol a
survey of interdisciplinary creators
drawing upon indigenous knowledge
transhumanist philosophies regenerative
ecologies and autonomous organizations
to imagine new relational ontologies
Beyond utopian and fatalist World Views
how do we negotiate the balance between
our individual freedom and communal
dependencies and what practical reality
can we all Build Together
there is such an inspiring lineup of
thinkers and creators who have taken a
leap with us to explore what a new
worlding protocol might look like and I
really hope you'll stick around all week
for contributions from Benjamin Bratton
and Audrey Tang Stu Li chain Wendy Chen
Cheyenne Concepcion Jeremy cuyard a.m
Dark Dawn XYZ Oria Harvey Joey holder
Kia kreutler hisu Kwan La Genie McMillan
Vernell a a Noel Chiari repo Nathan
Shafer skawanati sister lady Bianca then
Mosey sounderajan Sami wheeler McKenzie
work Peter Wu and chanchang Yi
I'm also really excited to share that we
have three performances by Valencia
James caken and Huntress over the course
of the festival for more info and if you
want to check out the full lineup head
to grayareafestival.io
later this week I'm going to be joined
by two of my favorite curators Doreen
Rios and Julia Greenway who will help me
moderate a series of talks and
discussions with all of the great area
participants
and finally I'm going to note that as
part of the festival we have curated an
immersive virtual exhibition in new art
City
the show is titled diorama and each of
the artist's contributions is housed
within a virtual architecture designed
by new art City Gallery director Sammy
vieler where portals to artist created
Created worlds are posed in neat
dioramas
this show works by replicating the
diorama exhibiting technique employed by
museums for centuries diorama's
installation offers a new phenomenology
that critiques and expands upon the
material limitations and affordances of
red web-ready simulated exhibition
formats underwater caves balmy Coast
Science warp star Fields Cyber cyberpunk
City escapes and more converge in a
kaleidoscopic panorama of what is and is
impossible
that was super long-winded so thank you
all very much for being here um and with
that I'll pass it back to you Barry
thank you Wade um we'll go now right
into our opening keynote conversation I
just need to note briefly that during
the end the very end we had some
technical problems that caused Benjamin
Bratton to to drop off
um so we didn't quite get to close it up
with a neat bow but it was a long and
very compelling it is a long and very
compelling conversation
um
uh that deals with a wide range of
topics so that's that's kind of what's
going on at the end but um I think we'll
all find it extremely valuable in its
entirety so um
here we go
hello I'm Barry through executive
director at gray area and on behalf of
everyone at gray area I would like to
welcome you to this opening keynote
conversation for gray area Festival 2021
worlding protocol
this discussion between Benjamin Bratton
and Audrey Tang was held on October 6th
it builds off the themes in bratton's
new book the Revenge of the real which
envisions a new positive biopolitics
that recognizes that governance is
literally a matter of life and death
we are grappling with multiple
interconnected dilemmas climate change
pandemics and the tensions between the
individual and Society all of which have
to be addressed on a planetary scale
covid-19 exposed the pre-existing
conditions of the current Global crisis
many Western States failed to protect
their populations While others were able
to suppress the virus only with sweeping
social restrictions
in contrast many Asian countries were
able to make much more precise
interventions
everywhere lockdowns transformed
everyday life introducing an
epidemiological view of society based on
sensing modeling filtering
the book asks what lessons are there to
be learned
Benjamin bratton's work spans philosophy
architecture computer science and
geopolitics
he's professor of Visual Arts at the
University of California San Diego
he is program director of the
terraforming and New Normal programs at
stroka Institute he is also a professor
of digital design at the European
graduate school and visiting professor
at sciarc and NYU Shanghai
in addition to the Revenge of the real
he's author of the stack on software and
sovereignty
Audrey Tang is a Taiwanese free software
programmer and digital minister of
Taiwan who has been described as one of
the 10 greatest Taiwanese Computing
personalities
in August 2016 Tang was invited to join
taiwan's executive Yuan as Minister
without portfolio making her the first
transgender and first non-binary
official in the top executive cabinet
Tang is a community leader of Haskell
and Pearl and a core member of gov zero
please enjoy the discussion
thank you for being here for this uh
conversation today
um I think
if we want to start talking about
technology infrastructure and
biopolitics today it seems hard not to
start with Facebook
which is of course a company that
operates like a nation state with two
you know they just said 2.8 billion
monthly active users as of second
quarter this year and a bigger economy
than a lot of Nations and which is
synonymous with its own technology stack
and it faced sort of dual National
Security issues recently with a bunch of
leaks that described how aware it is of
its own you know psychological and
political damage that its products have
on it their users
um and also a network outage which
brought down its services for itself and
um all the subsidiary services like
Instagram and WhatsApp so uh Mr Tang
maybe we can start with you and it you
know as someone who's worked you worked
really hard to uh on Commons and open
source and keeping digital
infrastructures in the Commons I'm
wondering if you have any perspective on
what we can you know what we should take
away from the recent Facebook activity
well in Taiwan since we invested quite
heavily in the Civic infrastructure in
the digital realm for the past few years
so I would say that our e-petitioning
our deliberative digital democracy stuff
was not impacted during the hours that
Facebook went down well apparently
because it's during our midnight but
still and also uh I would say that
because people recognize that in order
to have a politically abiding effect
um there is the digital equivalent of
town halls of museums University
campuses and so on where a civilized
conversation can be held and people go
to Facebook of course Taiwan has
probably more Facebook accounts than
population but they'd go there for
entertainment it's just like we will
never hold a town hall in a smoke-filled
nightclub with private bouncers
intoxicating drinks people have to get
hurt and things like that there's with
audio respect a place for the entered
him a sector but it's not for public
discussion
yeah I'm uh calling in from California
where uh Facebook is located
um and we haven't invested in our Civic
digital infrastructure uh in the same
way uh not not to say that a digital
infrastructure that plays the part or
pretends to be a kind of public realm
has not received investment obviously
it's received quite a lot of investment
and we've built this out and built that
out in this regard I say we the we The
Californians with some um
some trepidation I suppose
um I I suppose I'll come at it from a
different angle from Barry's question
about Facebook as a
um as a kind of a platform that operates
at our transnational scale
um to some extent
um operating above or below uh State
jurisdiction uh in its in in how it is
it's formal and de facto
uh sovereignty uh might might operate
um and it to some extent I I guess in
this regard I I see it as
um
uh
uh indicative of of a of a sort of
larger macro Trend uh sort of perhaps in
terms of the
the direction in which
um uh digital platforms might go uh in
in both a good way in a bad way uh in
about sort of positive or potentially
negative light or at least directions
that could go in either directions I
think quite clearly though I should say
that I think that the in a way Facebook
is Facebook as an example is
fundamentally broken Facebook is it was
fundamentally broken at the beginning
that it's it's model of a society
is one in which society is understood as
individual liberal individual users
um separate uh atomized and then Society
is then understood as simply the
multiplication and aggregation of these
Atomic individuals with wants and needs
and this curiously this curiousness of a
kind of of a privatized individual data
I I don't think this is not the model of
society that we understand from
anthropology sociology it's not how
societies work and so I think to a
certain extent there's a way in which
the contraption of Facebook is sort of
destined to fall apart in other kinds of
ways based on this fundamental
misapprehension but I guess one of the
things that I'm very I'm still
interested to a certain extent around
around this and would certainly
appreciate
um uh Audrey's uh Insight on this is to
the extent to which Facebook is a
transnational platform
um it's not it wasn't produced by a
single nation state essentially uh it it
operates across boundaries uh National
boundaries
um in different kinds of ways and one of
the ways in which we have seen uh more
positive versions of of investment in
Civic infrastructure has been on let's
say a municipal level
one city building kinds of things or
occasionally in your case as at this
level of a state of a nation-state that
is able to do this in other words that
the public
that invest in it that would build from
it that would benefit from it is a
public with a pretty old-fashioned kind
of jurisdiction built into it the
citizens of this place or that place and
I wonder
thinking you know wondering aloud uh in
a certain sense if there are ways of
thinking about
sip digital Civic infrastructures that
are transnational that are that that are
that are not bound to one at one
particular jurisdiction but that have
the same kind of
uh that have a Cosmopolitan Vision at
the scope at the scale or scope of
Facebook without but also but with a
with a vision of what a society is and
what a society should be that is
considerably less pathological uh than
the one that our friends in Menlo Park
have given us
but the digital public infrastructures
that I had in mind especially when
Facebook went down that's very active in
Taiwan say the PTT which is sometimes
compared to Reddit but really there's
not much in comma right PTT is uh GPL V3
it's free software SM Freedom
collaboratively governed uh and it's
been running under academic Network
subsidy for 25 years now and it's a it's
a global foreign I mean mostly uh the
conversation centers around Taiwan
politics and you know whatever other
public issues but the contributors come
from all sorts of different
jurisdictions uh and PDT only insists
that you can authenticate Yourself by
paying one Taiwan dollar to its bank
account which it probably refunds but it
doesn't quite care where you are like in
the physical plane so I I would say that
most of our conversations takes place
some forums that doesn't really care
about citizenship or a participatory
budgeting our citizens initiative is
maybe not called a citizen initiative
residents and people who anyway can
authenticate using SMS are all free to
to participate so all those different
tools which are open source are swiftly
then adapted in other parts of the world
and because they are Federated in nature
in the kind of source code contributions
and so on so we immediately gained kind
of uh in my mind it's more like a link
graph not a Place graph of people of
similar values that binds together
toward this kind of digital Commons or
re-decentralize Commons
thank you
as you know I've just recently published
a book about the pandemic uh called
revenge of the real on post-pandemic
politics and one of the
the arguments that the book makes
is that
um and maybe this to some extent is part
of the experience of the pandemic here
from from California is that the we can
understand and read the pandemic as a
kind of crisis of governance
particularly in the west
um that we have these wealthy
technologically sophisticated societies
um that were found themselves
politically and indeed culturally unable
to respond uh as effectively as really
that they should should have
um and obviously in particular a lot of
populist administrations really did the
worst globally speaking to not just
Trump but also bolsonaro and Modi and
Johnson and the rest of this and many
have interpreted this as a kind of bad
sign for democracy
um and one of the things that I also was
a bit troubled by was the way in which
the response of East Asian uh
democracies that in many cases and your
work being exemplary of this were far
more effective in in many ways but I
think really misunderstood in the west
and they're understood as being somehow
more authoritarian uh or even
totalitarian than they than um and I'm
sure this is based on all kinds of
um uh uh you know ignorance and
misunderstandings around this as well
but I just wanted to ask as someone who
was you know intimately involved in
taiwan's comparatively successful
response
what do you take as the key lessons
um to be taken from the pandemic more
more generally uh in terms of let's say
the future of governance more broadly if
we were to take the pandemic as a kind
of test run for many of the challenges
that we'll face going forward what
really should we be should we make sure
that we've learned from this experience
sure
um yeah we've never had a lockdown so I
don't think there's anything
totalitarian about the uh Taiwanese so
um yeah and and we're we're speaking now
for I think five days now six days uh
with no local community cases so if
we're not post pandemic we're probably
postponed uh the pandemic now the the
key to uh achieved is I believe is to
maximize trust in the citizens or as I
prefer to call it a social sector uh and
indeed the term social sector didn't
gain popularity in Taiwan until uh
around the turn of century a really
large earthquake that mobilized uh the
previously unconnected uh face systems
uh social entrepreneurs Charities and so
on that are more municipal or local
based uh but because they had to respond
to this sudden disaster of earthquake
together around the turn of the century
so they formed this um adhocracy if you
will that very effectively disseminates
knowledge in a culturally sensitive way
adapting it to the local knowledge and
wisdom and so even
um during the earthquake when the
municipal governments publish simply not
very accurate the large Charities and so
on they publish numbers that are far
more trusted and this continues to this
day like whenever durian has asked when
it's City charity publish a number they
automatically became more legitimacy
than any municipal government or even
central government so the point here is
uh that the digital infrastructure is
here to connect the social sector it's
not to automate away the social sector
when I explained that uh during the
pandemic last year there's more than 2
million calls to this toll-free number
1922 where anyone can place a call and
get their questions answered and so when
uh people were surprised that they don't
go to a voicemail ever and they were
picked up by either professional coach
and to operators or volunteers from the
city from the social sector and for
example when a young boy called saying
last April hey your rational mask which
is great but all I got was pink ones
which is not great and other boys in my
class have navy blue masks they don't
want to wear pink to school but the very
next day in the 2PM CCC Central epidemic
Command Center press conference all the
medical officers were pink masks and
Minister Chen the commander even said
that Pink Panther was his childhood hero
or something so basically uh the boy
became the most Hit Boy overnight
because only he has the color that the
heroes where I have a Heroes hero where
so I would say this is about trusting
the citizens with this kind of message
in real time imagine if the minister
Chen took like 60 days to respond then
of course we will not have this chance
of not just gender mainstreaming but
also making Master fashion statements
the pink mask was very trending for
quite a while and then rainbow mask and
whatever
mm-hmm
so it's just it's a dynamic between the
a kind of uh citizen-centric and
decentralized uh infrastructure that you
describe here is which is very different
as I suggest and the ways in which
um I I think the taiwan's response or
East Asian response in general has been
uh understood in the west I think part
of the crisis part of the the
there was the crisis of governance and
then there was this sort of refusal to
learn from the crisis of governance and
I think part of the refusal to learn was
to actually understand what other other
people were doing you know if this was a
sort of big experiment in comparative
governance
um and Italy wasn't doing very well
early on Texas wasn't doing Florida
whatever the the ability to actually
learn what works
um has we has not been taken up and I
this is this is I guess the thing that I
find you know even more a little bit
more disturbing in this regard and
specifically it has had to do with uh
suggested this question of
the role of Technology as a as a form of
social infrastructure even as
epidemiological technology and just to
say and asking for your comment
in the west this discussion was sort of
fell into sort of two camps the way I
would sort of take it two kinds of
extremes like either on the one hand
there was a kind of
um
Evangelical enthusiasm for the adoption
of whatever we have at hand as quickly
as possible phone tracking apps or
whatever
um uh and that this would solve this
would in essence as you suggested
automate the social sector like we won't
need the social sector because this will
be solved with the app or on the other
hand
uh maybe I kind of and this goes to your
question of trust
I think quite clearly that a sense that
any form
of
epidemiological sensing uh and the way
in which society might know what's going
on within itself
is a slippery slope to some kind of uh
biomedical
totalitarianism or something and so it
must be resisted on all terms and so
participation is resistant participation
is not only not entered into but it's
actively
um the sort of that there's a certain
that is actively refused and resisted in
one in one sense around this as well and
so I wonder just for those who are
viewing um
who are watching saying if you could uh
explain a little bit and recount a
little bit for us your role uh in in the
development of of taiwan's own response
and maybe some comment a little bit on
on how different the logic of how to
respond and even what the problem might
be uh than than this characterization
I've laid out if you think it's
appropriate sure uh I'll just use one
example from dismay uh from this tweet
uh from Tim culpin uh to start with OMG
exclamation mark uh and uh that's when
we introduce a what we call 1922 SMA
it's based uh PR code scanning uh
contact tracing technology and so it
works like this
um if you have a iPhone say in your lock
screen if you swipe uh without unlocking
you get into this camera mode and once
you point it to this QR code it sends a
message
and then you click Send and that's it
like this is literally in two seconds uh
how one in Taiwan checks into public
values uh during the height of our real
first wave and the only wave uh in May
um and there's quite a few
um nuances here first of all 1922 is
already a trusted telephone number it's
toll-free it doesn't cost you anything
to send an SMS we explain very clearly
that this random code is rotated out
deleted after 28 days and most crucially
it doesn't go to the government and it
doesn't go to any multinational company
that also happens to say advertisement
it's kind of a sticky note in your
Telecom provider so whichever Telecom
carrier you choose they're going to
store it for 28 days and then delete it
so in the more than a quarter billion
messages sent since May Since we
introduced it only around 1 million gets
access to buy professional contact
tracers and each and every individual
can look at the record of auditing
records of who exactly uh accessed those
records for the past 28 days at any time
on a public website and this entire uh
design is not government technology it's
co-created by a community of
practitioners that's a very care very
much about privacy enhancing uh
techniques and so on uh the Civic
Technologies called them self-go zero or
g0v and so they insist that each and
every SMS here have to attach this node
that says for epidemic control only and
so when a whistleblower a judge that
said hey somebody wiretapping a major uh
fraud crime uh the police accidentally
look at this and want to use it for
investigation there was a huge backlash
and then within a couple of weeks we
interpreted saying no this is not
communication because you're not talking
to a real human when you're sending the
SMS the vast majority of which just got
deleted after 28 days it's just like
appending a note to yourself so it
should not be wiretapped and after that
it's not more attacked so a real-time
feedback system like this I believe is a
good alternative really the only
alternative to over centralization in
the state and open centralization
multinational companies
in your in your sense how you would
characterize the difference between the
way in which Taiwan dealt with this I
mean it's sort of a big picture level
um between Taiwan dealt with us in the
ways in which it was dealt with in other
other areas either right next door and
PRC or anywhere else that you're sort of
familiar with because the as you
mentioned you're not in lockdown you
haven't been in lockdown and people are
amazed amazed to know that right next
door to China where the outbreak began
Electronics never locked on school
stayed open it was this
all of this was in a way unnecessary
like we could have done this better and
I I wonder from your sense like what
where the where you see the sort of the
patterns of differences and what you
what you what you attributed to yeah on
the highest level uh as I said is about
trusting citizens maximally uh and in a
slightly more tactical level I I'd say
we're we're faster more fair and more
fun so basically the the idea of foster
fund as the kind of three pillars of
social Innovation uh really uh allows
our clarifications our scientific
response our rational deliberation and
discussions uh to have a higher basic
reproduction value than conspiracy
theories so that we don't suffer from
the Revenge of the imaginary right so so
the idea here is that when people find
it more fun more participatory to remix
cute thought memes about using masks to
protect one's own face against one's
unwashed hunt and so on then all those
anxiety all those
um kind of suppressed outrage and so on
go to a creative almost comedic uh
artistic
um out outlet that then uh spreads the
science faster than the conspiracy
theories and disinformation
hmm
interesting
thank you I have more to ask but I'd
like to not I would not be the the only
sure because there's humor over a rumor
by the way which is quite political
humor over rumor that's the sentence
this is yeah that's right we need more
we need more of this I think yep
um
that's pretty interesting about the you
know as a kind of gray areas an Arts
organization we deal with this kind you
know creativity and how art and you know
I count memes as part of that are
can be part of this dialogue and have
kind of functional roles and you know
actual things going on in the world I
wonder
um
clearly there are also memes in the
United States you know is there any and
I would say that
um that this idea of like trusting the
citizen is pretty interesting and almost
seems like it wouldn't apply here in the
same way so I'm wondering if maybe I'm
in what ways can we dig into that
because
um so for example on the state level
what what was done to increase if
anything was done to encourage that kind
of meme activity or direct it in the
ways that you wanted it to go because
one assumes that there could also be a
lot of memes out there that were uh at
odds with what the government would hope
the response of the citizenry would be
which is certainly the case here but
that's entirely fine I I mean uh all of
our Public Communication materials are
under Creative Commons which already
says that you can reproduce it in the
wrong context really there is no wrong
context uh and and I I would argue that
the people who want to manufacture this
information wouldn't care about your
copyright notice anyway so it's like the
oath crypto it was right crypto only the
criminal half crypto uh and so uh the
same goes for for the cultural commas if
we put everything in the comments
certainly people who want to make this
information will use them but it also
empowers and anyone really who like cute
dogs and so on uh to remix and by and
large I think the more Artful
co-creative process show uh use of
social media eventually trimes over
there's more anti-social use of social
media but if you limit VR copyright and
thread and pursue and things like that
or the legitimate remixes then what ends
up is the people who are operating extra
jurisdiction generally and don't care
about your loss anyway
have was there any kind of problem with
misinformation or disinformation uh
within uh in terms of the public
discussion and I wonder whether that was
more at the beginning at the end and
what the what was it about and and how
was it dealt with
yeah we we countered the pandemic with
no lockdowns and so we also countered
the infodamic with no takedowns uh and I
would also say that our counter pandemic
Playbook
um is really a re-application of the
principles that are counter-infodemic
Playbook which we made in around 2018-19
uh which kind of exactly led to to the
pandemic times uh and ideas of phosphere
fund applies doubly to countering the
the infodamic because if you don't
response within 16 minutes of a trending
this information then although all hope
is lost right it's already made it into
the public Consciousness
um and so uh starting 2018-19
uh all the Ministries in Taiwan are
required to have this Triple Two
principle right uh within two hours on
average 16 minutes
um at least two funny pictures uh and
each carrying less than 200 characters
uh and that's kind of like counter Meme
and we work with um participation
offices people who are themselves
comedians or work closely with
professional comedians on such messaging
so this is one early example before the
pandemic there was a popular
misinformation that I said the state is
going to find you one million NT dollars
for Premier Hair multiple times a week
and then within a couple of hours
actually less than 60 Minutes this meme
appeared from the premieres of its head
of the cabinet that says it's not true
and then with the younger version of the
head of cabinet uh who said I may be
bought now but I still used to have hair
and I would not punish people with hair
and a fine print that says well we've
introduced really is a labor requirement
for hair products and then a hair dryer
uh with different hair as it looks now
that says however if you perm your hair
many times a week
um you will not damage your your bank
account but it would damage your hair
and just look at me now for what will
happen to your hair now this is quite
humorous this obviously had a higher
basic reproduction rate and people who
laughed about it kind of laughed it off
so there's no um kind of outrage turned
into vengefulness discrimination and
someone left uh for them so we call it
vaccination of the mind uh once people
left and shared in this meme uh the
original rumor has no potency anymore uh
within kind of a Pneumatic replicating
uh potential but of course the comedians
can't only focus on few things at a time
every time so what we rely on is like
people voluntarily flacking incoming
email as a Spam and sending to spam
house so this Farmer's next email lands
to the junk mail uh box not the Inbox
and so we've got uh the leading trend
micro our antivirus company the g0v
community has this co-fact spot and and
so on that you can't just forward and
end-to-end encrypted it's like a signal
or Whatsapp in Taiwan is called line you
can forward a suspected misinformation
to the spot which then offers real-time
clarification via a crowdsource weekly
like editing process and vented by the
professional journalists in the
television check Center and the beauty
of this is none of this is State
operated right it's it's firmly squarely
within the social sector like spam house
is so we basically use the counterspawn
Playbook to to encounter this
information and later on this proved to
be essential uh in spreading the mimetic
messages about science and we even
convince our vice president uh Dr Chen
Tyrion to record uh some of the massive
online courses that then went viral he's
not just our vice president also author
of The epidemiology textbook Authority
so let me clarify then so you were
saying that the the Ministries
themselves
um follow the the three F's uh strategy
we're able to respond an example that
you showed was a response by one of the
Ministries within 20 minutes
um but it's it's not a it it's decision
it's not a you wouldn't characterize
this as a government uh as a state state
initiative but rather a if I understand
it a social sector initiative in your
terms in which the state is the state is
participating because
we're just participating as as a Creator
right as a fellow Creator we do not
enjoy privilege over other creators and
the power of the state manufacturing
memes is not in the state channels
themselves but rather in the remixers
that then take the meme uh and spread it
to their local community but in what way
did the state sponsor these did the
state pay for the infrastructure all or
help organize the building of it or help
pay or organize the creatives that made
the memes like in what in what way was
the support done from the state level
yeah the international flag checking
network has strict rules uh when it
comes to a party or state donation so
we're in not funding any of the
infrastructure level work similarly the
kofax project in front of zero project
doesn't have any state funding and so on
and Trend Micro is a large enough
antivirus company probably doesn't mean
State funding anyway so uh there is a
ecosystem other full disclosure because
Trend micros team uh won a award for
international counter disinformation
organized by by your state department so
in a sense it receives State funding in
the form of a trophy a prize or
something in any case uh what I'm trying
to say is that the Ministries and their
comedians they are course paid funded
the preservation of business are career
public servants is part of their job but
it's the part of their job to engage the
commas with the rule of the Commerce
amplifying the commas this is what I
call a people published private
partnership that is to say the people
set the Norms just like the Norms around
QR based contact tracing saying no to
aggregated data storage uh to the state
or to multinational companies and what
we did is just to engage them on their
rules and then turning around convincing
the private sector to implement the
Norms already set inside the social
sector and convincing non- domestic
players in the private sector like
Facebook saying that they have also to
comply with the say the honest
advertisement during our election period
or the social and political
advertisements need to publish in real
time they're funding sources and things
like that well that's because what
that's the social sector months and they
occupied uh the the parliament literally
to five it is and this is the norm here
and the PTT has already implemented that
so Facebook really uh the the kind of
trade negotiation with Facebook is not
that we'll pass a law to ban you we've
never done that but rather you may face
social sanction if you go against the
social problem
hmm and what kind of what kind of
sanction might that be well for example
uh people who uh boycott Facebook for
not uh publishing the extra
jurisdictionally sponsored advertisement
people who boycott posting advertisement
yeah
and I think in 2019 power is one if not
the first jurisdiction where Facebook
just just caved in and say okay let's
just publish like taiwan's control your
National auditing office or the extra
jurisdictionally and even domestic
advertisement during the election season
interesting so I I wanted to ask you a
little more on the um
the three the people public and private
Dynamic here as well I wonder if you
could articulate for us in your term why
it's so important that uh this stage is
not involved in these initiatives for
what might just seems like the
governance of the public the public
realm in from a
so the way in which for example many of
the Western European countries dealt
with it the social Norm to a certain
extent was a presumption that the role
of the state is to have some kind of
conducting role in this as well and I
wonder if you could talk a little
obviously across the stage in PRC as
well but I wonder if you could talk a
little bit why it's important that the
state is only one player not uh not sort
of the supervisor so to speak yeah it
because uh we are a pluralistic
democracy and there's multiple different
ways that states can uh play its part
but uh especially during elections if we
control the fact checking then we would
not have the effective response uh for
countering this particular form of this
information uh which and I quote said
the CIA made two special invisible inks
for ballots so you vote for one of the
three presidential candidates your vote
would disappear uh and uh Dr tin
Wentzville will appear and so on it was
one of the more popular trending this
information during our election day
something that advanced democracy like
the US never had anyway so uh what we
did though in Taiwan is that instead of
the State uh pushing any particular form
of propaganda or clarification we simply
radically opened accounting process um
Taiwan has only paper-based uh voting uh
and uh only in person picking up as well
think there's no Advanced or mail in
voting so people after uh they voted
they remain and we open up for uh live
streaming and for recording uh all the
accounting processes and each and every
of the accounting booths and each of the
major parties have their own apps of
real-time telling and the YouTubers made
it kind of their their job right to to
stream the otherwise foreign counting
process
um and so whenever a YouTuber live
streams from accounting value station uh
there's a way to very quickly go back to
the recordings of the disputed uh places
in subun via the political party
sponsored apps and there's quite a few
of those YouTubers
um and when all of those YouTubers have
different political parties agree in
their accounts no matter which political
party affiliation for end you're
probably trust their members and their
entertaining uh reporting More Than This
trending this information so again this
is about notice and and put out a public
notice that's participatory it's not
about taking down anything in particular
but imagine if the state funds this
infrastructure then it will be kind of
working in Paradox with each other
because
um Dr assignment is campaigning for the
second term so basically she has a kind
of paradoxical
um relation with this kind of digital
public infrastructure if this
infrastructure is paid by the state
government
hmm I wonder if I could ask you then
what
um I mean your
Minister your in a sense you're both
part of the social sector and the state
sector in this regard you're you're all
three p's in a certain sort of way yes
what uh what do you see I mean how would
you characterize you know in a versus
the the proper role of digital Civic
infrastructure that is funded and
deployed and administered by the state I
I it you know there's an all manner of
different discussions about the way in
which
uh the
the sensing and modeling and
comprehension of what is going on in a
society and how a society it's
functioning and how it sort of work and
long-term planning
long you know and sort of the long-term
foresight that that
um more ad hoc groups are are not
necessarily well structured to to to
deal with the kinds of things we we sort
of lean on states to do what do you see
as the proper you know the the as uh how
do I put this as the fundamental
infrastructure upon which uh all complex
societies Japan becomes increasingly
computational
where do you see the proper role then
for the parts of this transformation
that are uh appropriately State driven
or state administrative State
participate versus those that really
should stay uh on the people side of
this or in terms of the norm setting and
in terms of the long-term planning yeah
I mean the stage still for for the
moment uh is the main producer of
regulations and laws uh whereas the
social sector is the producer of habits
and Norms so uh and Norm first approach
says that the state should only play a
amplifying role it should not create the
data collection points that wasn't part
of the norm to begin with in the name of
the pandemic that's perhaps one of the
most important heuristic during the
entire pandemic that taiwan's model
implies because if we invent new data
collection touch points that are simply
not there nothing like that they said
before during the pre-pandemic times
then the cyber security parameters the
Privacy parameters are completely
unknown and instead it's basically
saying trust us without trusting the
citizens right and and that's a big no
no because then people have all sorts of
ways to feel the conspiracy theories
because otherwise the state should have
thought about this before so in a sense
because we've never declared a state of
emergency in Taiwan during this pandemic
everything we did need to be part of the
already Parliament
approved publicly debated
pre-approved norm-based use of
technology which is why we realize so
much on the National Health Care system
on the SMS system and so on not because
they're the best fit but because people
already put trust in those fundamental
infrastructure that's been around since
the previous coronavirus since 2003
right so so the point here is that this
complementarity to existing social
sector infrastructures is where we're
powering our budget and our efforts in
just like when we're doing Broadband as
a human right we're not saying that
everybody have to use
um I don't know lowers orbit satellite
links or whatever we use uh the existing
infrastructure already there in the more
rural areas and remote islands and so on
but we commit ourselves saying there
will be uh and there was sufficient
funding from 5G Spectrum auction and
things like that to make sure that at
any point in time or even four thousand
meters high you're guaranteed to have 10
megabits per second otherwise it's my
fault like personally so so I think that
is the role that they should play
I see I see and this is quite a
obviously quite um
quite different than the role of the
state has played across the Strait on in
PRC uh
um and I I would I can't
by the opportunity to speak with you to
I can't pass the opportunity to ask you
to comment a little bit on what you see
as the um uh comparative successes and
failures uh of the way in which uh the
mainland dealt with this dealt with this
phenomenon it's obviously
extraordinarily different uh but I
wonder how you would characterize it
yeah when December 31st when Dr
earlier's message
um
down on the 2019's last day literally
spread to PTT the Civic infrastructure
in Taiwan uh I think it also made ways
to other parts
um of social media because our ones are
more pro-social I guess uh we're the
only uh jurisdiction in which that Dr
Lee Williams message the Seven Stars
cases in the financial Market actually
made a policy impact right we started
Health inspections for all flight
passengers coming in from the very next
day the first day of 2020 and that's
because the triage of the contributors
on PTT uh in a decently pro-social
manner on this whistleblowing message
now compared to people in Wuhan who
literally has no way to have access to
this message because of the lack of
journalistic Freedom uh because
definitely himself was censored by the
police station no less uh and so I guess
all the kind of sudden lockdowns all
those
very top-down shutdown take down
um infrastructures that the PRC has
built also reinforce itself because
without a thriving uh collective
intelligence journalism and the social
sector there really is no way to know
what's going on uh and then when you
want to put epidemic control to a
situation where you literally don't know
what's going on then really the only
recourse is to go to this more top-down
takedown shutdown route but Taiwan was
able to choose a different route not
only because nobody wants to go back to
the SARS lockdown in 2003 but also
because we had a choice because we have
this collective intelligence that can
inform us quite um with the wisdom of
the crowds what's actually going on and
what should we do
so uh in summary uh I I believe that the
collective intelligence that's the PTP
acted on the stars seven cases in online
safer Market warning around the turn
from 2018 to 2020 the first day of 2020
because Dr Leo announced message
literally saved how many people we
started house inspection for all five
passengers come in from Wuhan because it
was triage on the pro-social Civic
infrastructure but in the PRC where
people have literally no way to get that
clearly honest message because it was
censored there was no other choice when
you know nothing about what's really
going on then your only recourse is
probably just top down take down shut
down whatever and so I think Taiwan
penis but it's from being a liberal
democracy a pluralistic democracy
because we not only know what's going on
thanks to the Civic journalist but also
we know what what should we do thanks to
the specific scientists
um
a talk about
surveillance and tracking a little bit
which is a prominent part of the book or
I think sort of the sensing layer of the
stack as you talk about it Ben
um
and you know we kind of had a couple of
responses in the U.S one you know one is
that
tracking phone and tracking technology
was going to save everything you know
there was a Californian State app that I
remember being developed and we had like
Google and apple sharing data to try and
have a tracking response and then of
course there's an anti-surveillance
response that's uh
kind of a you know Big Data don't track
everybody or it's going to be uh you're
going to have all sorts of dystopian
outcomes
um
wondering from you know your perspective
in Taiwan how how what were the uses of
sort of surveillance and tracking and
how is that
um messaged and accepted by the
citizenry to keep from having the worst
kind of responses to it
but what if I could clarify just please
one moment was simply that um
uh I I think a lot of it comes down to
just sort of the definition of what do
we mean by surveillance in this regard
and it was really more of a critique to
a certain extent of a rather I think
blunt and overly uh simplistic uh
connotation of that term either in sort
of pro or con and in that sense one of
the problems that we as Barry as you
know in in California was under sensing
that people couldn't get tested that our
Health Care system is not inclusive it's
not Equitable and we part of the reason
we as as you were saying you know what's
going on so you can act we didn't know
what was going on we were not able to
test people and so we were not able to
develop you know granular
epidemiological models and so specific
intervention was impossible and so is
there a saying you're let what you don't
know what's going on you're left with no
choice but to assume it's everywhere and
shut everything down and so I I think my
point was less okay surveillance is good
but rather that this discourse around
surveillance as such has in a way has
contributed to a situation where
collective intelligence is more is
almost impossible and much more
difficult than it should be and we need
a different conversation that was really
the point to be made so with that El
Paso yeah and and I would uh describe
taiwan's participatory self-surveillance
thing as uh at stiefmont's outward uh
sues valence right uh kind of watching
from from Anda uh from the bottom uh not
watching from this uh Sky Net thing
right so um what I'm trying to say is
that sus Valens or participatory
self-surveillance
um is crucially uh important in a
surveillance system that this entire
thing is radically transparent and easy
to understand so when we introduced the
real contact contact tracing system uh
last year this is about Avenues putting
uh kind of a piece of paper where anyone
doesn't need to fill in their real name
just a handle and uh a way for them to
be contacted like an email address which
could be a you know protonmail or a
private relay to see or whatever or a
phone number that could be a a telephone
number in the landline or uh mobile so
so the point here is that people
interest the venue with this minimal
contact numbers and the venue never have
to uh submit it to the government or to
any other company actually they shred it
after 28 days of no local confirmed
cases which is most of last year and so
the point here is that even in the
nightclubs in even in the house and
Hostess boss that remain operating for
most of the last year they're okay with
this because they is in their best
interest to keep the Privacy the private
details of their patrons and the patrons
well they you know the venues already
know them anyway so this information is
not going anywhere until if this venue
is shut down because of a a local
outbreak in that very venue and
otherwise this information is not going
anywhere so the sms-based contact Tracy
just extends this idea and
um take the Telecom operators as kind of
the venue and it's not compulsory so you
can always just go back and people
innovate it there too right people
carried small kind of name cards that
are pseudonymous people apply this kind
of ink stamp uh and so on especially for
people with no phones whatsoever and
that's still a preferred way to enter
Independence if you don't like the user
film and even if you have a feature film
like you know smartphone
um you just text the 15 digits that I
just showed uh in your built-in text SMS
function of the feature phone to 1922
address that number again that completes
the check in so because it's so
transparent and so easy to understand
people form their own decisions on
whether they want to be informed when
there's a local outbreak or not or they
go back to the paper best method which
is completely fine
and what is the response when there is
an outbreak who is what is the
institutional level among the three p's
uh what happens when there is an
outbreak in terms of the carrier what
the role of the carrier the role of the
state or any other health the health
industration like what is the sequence
of sort of chain of responsibility to to
to to make an intervention the the
municipal contact tracers the city
contact traces usually employed by the
local Health burial uh initiates the
contact tracing and interview process so
they physically go to The Venue to
collect their paper reports uh and they
also of course uh ask the five major
telecoms of the SMS check-in um Trail
but those checking Trails doesn't come
with location information these are just
15 digit random code right so they have
to also make a separate inquiry to the
QR code maker uh then to uh complete the
picture so in information science terms
this is a multi-party computation
meaning that no none of the three or
four parties have the complete picture
of the person's whereabouts and without
the other party's collaboration well
they're there really simply is no
surveillance market capitalism value of
The Shard of information that one holds
it just looked like gibberish right so
uh but when the uh by law authorized uh
contact Tracer get hold of this
information and piece them together
instead of in other jurisdictions where
it takes on average uh 24 hours to get
this picture together let alone the
interviews and quarantine until when all
this process takes less than 24 minutes
24 minutes how so I mean after they go
and after they physically go and get
this you said pick this up yeah then
this aggregation process is just
completely automatic right so it's there
there is a contact Tracer assistance
platform uh and they just uh fill in
those details there and then it pieces
together the multi-party uh inputs and
then shows via a map a complete picture
of the overlapping
um path and trails and such as the
contacts and with the click of the
button uh one can then get a telephone
or contact or email of everyone who
intersected uh who check in on the same
uh venue right uh after or
um sometimes after depending on Airborne
transmission of this confirmed case and
then all of these people are then
notified and quarantined in place or
things like that
I see and it's the quarantine is
voluntary I'm just I'm curious on this
other corn or is there a measure the
place of the quarantine is uh you can
choose right a quarantine Hotel a
quarantine Center uh and things like
that uh by the quarantine itself the 14
days is compulsory and we pay you around
100 US dollars a day for your trouble uh
but if you break out of the quarantine
then you pay us back uh I think a
thousand times that or something uh for
our travel
well I see I see and and so I'm very
curious about this
um the quarantine centers themselves
this is also something that I think is
you know something that the that Western
countries used to do quite a lot um
would put the people you know you move
the people who need to be in quarantined
to a centralized facility and they
quarantine there and there may be some
strange camaraderie that appears with
you know uh you know there's been
romance novels written about you know
falling in love under quarantine and the
rest of this as well but you know
a society that's so atomized and
individual the the individualistic the
idea of actually sort of going out of
your house to sort of to spend this time
with with other people seems so strange
I wonder what tell us a bit about the
cultures of these places
sure uh their four star and five-star
hotels mostly that didn't have much
International visitors anyway uh and
then into into kind of a 14-day vacation
place with
um sometimes was also you know a small
gyms and exercising equipment so I I
guess it's it's it felt like yeah
vacation and not uh just just kind of
um playing down that there's suddenly
have to leave the place you work and
live uh for 14 days I mean this is quite
traumatic uh for for Frankly Speaking a
lot of people but uh we we try to make
it something that's that's worth
um worth sharing afterwards uh and that
is to say I remember when there was a
quarantine center near the Yao Ming
mountains and I received this email from
someone quarantined they're saying uh
Minister you promised Broadband is a
human right but um this room near the
yummy Mountain I don't get Broadband
this email took me uh five hours to
and then I'm like sorry we apologize
profusely and within 14 days we've
installed a repeater there so they can
enjoy streaming video but by that time
that person is already out of quarantine
so so he made a point of driving back
measuring speed test posting messages
and things like that
this is this act very very engaged
citizens
all right cheers
um and that was really good conversation
and I looked forward to uh continue over
email and if you need anything just let
me know and uh we plan to to post the
video that you edited under Creative
Commons after you air if that's okay
see you then live long and prosper bye